# What is Fundamental UI?

Fundamental UI is a coherent Design System accompanied by a collection of HTML/CSS Components. Consumable as a library that can be used independently of the Front-End Technology or Framework. It is used to build Modern User Experiences for Products with the SAP look and feel.

Learn more about this project at - http://sap.github.io/fundamental/

# Current version
````
v1.1.0
````

# The Project Structure

* dist - distribution folder that contains combined and individual CSS files for all component
* docs - Static Documentation site for the library
* icons - Custom icon set that is used in some components
* ops - various configurations and gulp tasks for processing scss, building icons, generating documentation site
* scss - SCSS source files for all the components
* test - Testing framework for the components


# Project Requirements

This project packages the library for `npm` and generates the documentation as a static website.

We rely on several core technologies.

* Git (for downloading this repo)
* [Node](https://nodejs.org/) (minimum v6.4)
* [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/) (for various ops tasks)
* SCSS (for CSS)
* Nunjucks (for testing)
* Ruby (for documentation site)
* Bundle (for documentation site)
* Jekyll (for documentation site)


# Download and Installation - Library only

### Quick start with CDN link

You can quickly include the latest minified file available via CDN link below

```
https://unpkg.com/fundamental-ui@1.1.0/dist/fundamental-ui.min.css
```

### NPM

Install the library.

> NOTE:  NPM Package only includes scss and dist folders.

````
npm install fundamental-ui --save
````


# Download and Installation - Full Project

### Clone Repository

Clone the repo using the git software of your choice or using the git command below

````
git clone https://github.com/SAP/fundamental.git
````


# Configuration

### Install Gulp
In addition to Node, you must have Gulp installed globally:

`npm install -g gulp`

### Install Gems
The following gems need to be installed for the documentation site generation

`gem install ruby bundle jekyll`

### Install Bundle Dependencies

Bundle dependencies must be installed the from `docs` directory

````
cd docs
bundle install
````

### Install NPM Dependencies

````
npm install
````


# Serve it locally

The documentation website is served from the `docs/_site` directory which is generated by Jekyll. To generate and lunch the documentation site, simply execute the gulp command in the terminal at the root of the project directory.

```
gulp
```

### Usage

Include the full library.

```html
<link href="node_modules/fundamental-ui/dist/fundamental-ui.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
```

### Standalone components
The components can be used without loading the whole library. Take a look at the individual files at:

```
/dist/components/
```

For example, to use only the cards
```html
<link href="node_modules/fundamental-ui/components/card.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
````


# Limitations

At the time this version was released, there are no known limitations


# Known Issues

### Configuring icons path when importing SCSS

If you are importing .scss files in your project, the icons path needs to be configured in your project's .scss file before the Fundamental UI scss import as described below. Please note that the path variable name has to be `$fd-icons-path` in order to override the default value set in `scss/icons/icon.scss`.

```
$fd-icons-path : "../node_modules/fundamental-ui/scss/icons/"; // should be declared before the scss import

@import "../node_modules/fundamental-ui/scss/all.scss";

```


# How to obtain support

If you encounter an issue, you can [create a ticket](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental/issues) or write an email to fundamental@sap.com


# Contributing

Details of where and how to start developing the new component can be found in `test/README.MD` file.
New branches should include the type (feature, bug, or hotfix) and the issue number or release number.

```
git checkout -b feature/000
git checkout -b bug/000
git checkout -b hotfix/000
```

Create a pull request against branch  develop  and assign it for review.

When accepted, the reviewer will merge and delete the branch.


# To-Do

Several exciting changes are planned for the year 2018. Please stay tuned and the roadmap will be made available soon.


# License

Copyright (c) 2018 SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed under the Apache Software License, v. 2 except as noted otherwise in the [LICENSE](https://github.com/SAP/fundamental/blob/master/LICENSE) file.
